
                            FIFTEEN NEW WAYS

                              FOR OYSTERS




                             MRS S T RORER




------------------------------------------------------------------------




OTHER BOOKS

          BY MRS S T RORER


MRS RORER’S COOK BOOK

    nearly 600 pages of the choicest
    recipes in every department of
    cookery; bound in washable oilcloth
    covers, $1.75

CANNING AND PRESERVING

    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75
    cents

HOT WEATHER DISHES

    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75
    cents

HOME CANDY MAKING

    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75
    cents

TWENTY QUICK SOUPS

FIFTEEN NEW WAYS FOR OYSTERS

HOW TO USE A CHAFING DISH

COLONIAL RECIPES

SANDWICHES

DAINTIES

    Each of the above six volumes is bound
    in a different colored linen cloth,
    beautifully stamped in colors; price
    25 cents each




                     ARNOLD AND COMPANY Publishers
                              PHILADELPHIA

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            FIFTEEN NEW WAYS
                              FOR OYSTERS




                            BY MRS S T RORER




                              PHILADELPHIA
                           ARNOLD AND COMPANY




                    Copyright 1894 by Mrs S T Rorer




Printed by
George H Buchanan and Company
Philadelphia

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                CONTENTS


                     Curried Oysters
                     Sauted Oysters
                     Boiled Oysters
                     Oysters a la Newburg
                     Keebobbed Oysters
                     Pan Baked
                     Oyster Tarts
                     Creamed Oysters
                     Spindled Oysters
                     Scallop of Oyster and Macaroni
                     Bisque of Oyster
                     Oysters en Coquille
                     Oysters Stuffed
                     Oysters on Mushrooms
                     Baked Mushrooms
                     Larded Oysters Broiled

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            CURRIED OYSTERS


Drain twenty-five good, fat oysters, boil the liquor, skim and strain
it. Into a saucepan put one tablespoonful of butter, slice into it one
good-sized onion; stir and cook until the onion is a golden brown. Then
add a level tablespoonful of flour, mix and add the oyster liquor, which
should measure one-half pint. If it does not, add sufficient chicken
stock to make the quantity; stir until boiling; mix a teaspoonful of
curry powder with a little stock, a teaspoonful of turmeric, moistened
with a little starch, and boil again; add one-half teaspoonful of salt
and strain into the upper part of a double boiler. Have ready now a
griddle, quite hot. Brush it lightly with butter, throw on four or five
of the oysters; as soon as they sear or brown, turn them, brown, and
throw them into the curry sauce. So continue until you have the whole
number cooked. Serve at once.




                             SAUTED OYSTERS


Drain twenty-five fat oysters, spread them out on a board, carefully
lifting them with the fingers by the muscular part. Never stick a fork
into an oyster. With a soft piece of cheese cloth, dry each one
carefully without bruising. Dust lightly with salt and red pepper. Have
ready a large sheet-iron sauted pan. Put in the bottom just sufficient
butter to keep the oyster from sticking. Have at your side the serving
dish, nicely heated, in which you may put a tablespoonful of butter, and
if you use wine, a tablespoonful of sherry, and about four drops of
Worcestershire sauce. Now throw the oysters, a few at a time, into the
hot pan. Shake them. Lift them quickly as soon as the gills have curled;
put them into the serving dish and then cook a second lot. Do not cook
over eight at a time. Serve at once.




                             BOILED OYSTERS


Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and then strain or pour it off
carefully, leaving the sediment in the melting pan. Put the strained
butter in a heated dish in which you are going to serve the oysters.
Have ready a good-sized kettle of boiling water. Have the oysters
drained in a bowl, which hold close to the kettle in your left hand. Now
with a skimmer take out five or six oysters. Throw them into the boiling
water for just a minute. Then with the same skimmer take them out, drain
carefully, throw them into the heated dish of melted butter, and so
continue until you have the desired quantity boiled. Add then to each
twenty-five a half-teaspoonful of salt and just a grain of cayenne.
Serve smoking hot. This is one of the most delicious ways of cooking
oysters. If you use wine, two tablespoonfuls of sherry may be added.




                          OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG


Drain fifty oysters; pour over them a pitcher of cold water. Have ready
a granite pan, smoking hot; throw in the oysters; add two ounces of
butter, a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper.
Stir carefully with a wooden spoon until the oysters are smoking hot.
Have ready the yolks of two eggs beaten with six tablespoonfuls of
cream; add quickly−−do not boil; then add a tablespoonful of sherry and
serve on nicely browned toast.




                           KEEBOBBED OYSTERS


Drain fifty oysters. Boil the liquor, skim and strain, and stand aside
until wanted. Take the white part from one root of celery, and slice it
very fine. Chop sufficient parsley to make two tablespoonfuls. Put out
on the board about a pint of stale bread crumbs; beat four eggs; add to
them about four tablespoonfuls of oyster liquor. Now dip each oyster
first in the egg and then into the crumbs. Arrange them neatly over the
bottom of a baking dish, crowding them just a little; sprinkle over them
salt, pepper, celery and parsley; then dip again and put over another
layer of oysters; season, add celery and parsley, and so continue until
the baking dish is full; having the last layer oysters. Cut a
tablespoonful of butter into pieces, and put them over the top; pour a
gill of the oyster liquor over the whole. Bake in quick oven twenty
minutes. Serve smoking hot.




                               PAN BAKED


Drain twenty-five oysters free from all liquor. The oysters should be
good-sized and fat. In the bottom of an individual baking dish put one
square of nicely toasted bread. On top of this arrange about six
oysters; sprinkle over them a quarter teaspoonful of salt and a dash of
pepper, and then pour over four tablespoonfuls of cream. Stand these
dishes in a baking pan, then run into a hot oven for about ten minutes.
Serve at once in the dishes in which they were cooked.




                              OYSTER TARTS


Have ready about half-pound of French puff paste. Drain fifty oysters.
Put ten into individual baking dishes. Dust over about a quarter
teaspoonful of salt, a grain of red pepper, and place in the center a
bit of butter the size of a hickory nut. Roll the paste into a thin
sheet; with a round cutter stamp out a top. Place this top over the
oysters, brush it lightly with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a quick
oven twenty minutes. Serve in the dishes in which they were baked.
These, if carefully made, are sightly and are certainly very good.




                            CREAMED OYSTERS


Drain fifty oysters; pour over them a pitcher of cold water. Then turn
them into a saucepan; bring them to a boiling point, drain again, this
time saving the liquor. Measure it, and add to it sufficient milk to
make one pint. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour into a
saucepan; mix over the fire without browning; then add the oyster liquor
and milk; stir constantly until boiling; add the oysters, and bring just
to boiling point. Take from the fire, add a teaspoonful of salt, a
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and if you use wine, two
tablespoonfuls of sherry. Serve at once.




                            SPINDLED OYSTERS


Drain twenty-five large oysters. Cut breakfast bacon into very thin
slices, and then cut each slice into three pieces. Take an ordinary
broiling skewer; run it through the hard part of an oyster and then back
so as to pin each oyster between two pieces of bacon; that is, run the
skewer through a piece of bacon as though you were sticking it with a
pin, then through an oyster, and then through another piece of bacon,
and so on until the skewer is filled. Arrange all the skewers neatly on
a double broiler; broil quickly over a clear fire, first on one side
then on the other. Serve at once on the skewers.




                         SCALLOP OF OYSTER AND
                                MACARONI


Break four ounces of macaroni into pieces two inches long; throw into
boiling water; boil rapidly thirty minutes; drain; throw into cold water
for fifteen minutes; drain again. Drain fifty oysters. Put a layer of
these oysters into the bottom of a baking dish, then a layer of the
boiled macaroni; another layer of oysters and macaroni; dusting a little
salt and pepper over each layer; continue until the dish is filled;
having the last layer macaroni. Cut a tablespoonful of butter into bits.
Put the bits over the top, and dust thickly with bread crumbs. Pour over
this four tablespoonfuls of cream, and bake in a quick oven about twenty
minutes.




                            BISQUE OF OYSTER


Drain fifty oysters; boil and skim the liquor. Chop the oysters with a
silver knife; add them to the liquor; boil and skim again. Put one quart
of milk in a double boiler; rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter
and three tablespoonfuls of flour; add this to the hot milk; stir
constantly until smooth and thick as cream. Add one teaspoonful of
celery pepper and the oysters. Strain through a sieve, pressing lightly;
add teaspoonful of salt, and serve at once.




                          OYSTERS EN COQUILLE


Boil in their own liquor twenty-five fat oysters. Drain, and chop with a
silver knife. Put one cup of milk in double boiler. Rub together one
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour; add gradually the hot milk,
beating all the while. Now add yolks of two eggs, teaspoonful of salt,
quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of green pepper
chopped fine; add the oysters, fill the mixture into the deep oyster
shell, dust with dry bread crumbs, and brown in a quick oven. Do not
keep them in long, or the mixture will curdle.




                            OYSTERS STUFFED


Drain twenty-five large fat oysters. Remove the hard part, and fill the
space with a forcemeat made from quarter cup of finely chopped chicken,
same quantity of crumbs, tablespoonful of thick cream, a half
teaspoonful of salt, dash of paprica, all mixed well together. Dust the
oysters with salt and pepper. Beat two eggs without separating; add to
them two tablespoonfuls of oyster liquor, and one of warm water. Dip the
oysters first in crumbs, then in the egg mixture, and then again in
crumbs, being careful not to lose the stuffing. Fry in smoking hot oil.
Serve as fried oysters. In placing the stuffing, press it in without
bruising the oyster, but sufficiently firm to keep it in its place.




                          OYSTERS ON MUSHROOMS


Drain twenty-five fat oysters, and put two lardoons of bacon through
each oyster. Cut the fat part of ham or bacon into tiny strips; use a
small larding needle, and just take one stitch in soft part, then
another, allowing the ends to hang. Dip each oyster in bread crumbs,
then in egg, and then again in crumbs. Fry in smoking hot oil. Have
ready a platter of baked mushrooms; put the oysters on top, cover with
brown sauce, and serve.




                            BAKED MUSHROOMS


Peel and cut short the stems from a pound of good-sized mushrooms; put
them in baking pan, gills up; put a tiny bit of butter in each, sprinkle
with salt and pepper. Run them in a hot oven for fifteen minutes; then
pour in the pan about a gill of cream and one gill of oyster liquor that
has been boiled and strained; bring to boiling point. Dish the
mushrooms, cover them over with the oysters, add two tablespoonfuls of
sherry to sauce. Make it very hot and pour it over.




                         LARDED OYSTERS BROILED


Lard with bacon as in preceding recipe, twenty-five fat oysters. Brush
an oyster broiler with melted butter and then cover it closely with the
oysters. Boil half cup of the oyster liquor, strain, put it in the
serving dish, add a tablespoonful of butter, half teaspoonful of salt,
dash of paprica. Now put the oysters over a clear fire, broil quickly on
one side, turn and broil the other. Be very careful to loosen the
oysters before opening the broiler. Lift the oysters into the sauce and
serve immediately.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           Transcriber’s Note


Punctuation was normalized.

The following printer’s errors were fixed:

  bown —> brown

  The spelling of "tablespoonfuls" was standardized.

Repeating titles in the front matter were removed.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Fifteen New Ways for Oysters, by 
S. T. (Sarah Tyson) Rorer

